Jehovah wants your family to be happy and peaceful, but Jehovah does more than simply say I hope you have a peaceful family life
He explains exactly how we can get our family there. I
Want you to imagine Jehovah laying out a map in front of you and saying see these landmarks look for them on the road to peace
And if you see them, you're going in the right direction
So far in this symposium we've passed the landmarks of show love and respect
Improving communication and working together as a team
The last landmark we'll consider in this symposium is
Worshiping together as a family
Worshiping together as a family promotes peace and brings his blessing
Even if not all in your family or worshipers of Jehovah you can promote peace by maintaining a very good spiritual routine
In the following dramatization notice some common obstacles to worshipping Jehovah as a family. Hi
Hey, babe. So what's for family worship this week? I think I got some good ideas. Yeah
Thank you for reading that
She's got to ask the question. We'll just do that. So a paragraph 13 and 14. How can we be generous?
Anybody? Now the footnote that we just read really helps us to appreciate
the definition of that quality
Without the definition we're left to wonder exactly what it is and how it connects to the other things that we've discussed this evening
Again, can you go ahead and read the next one first?
Thank you. The Bible contains many examples of submissive individuals
So are there examples?
Sue? Yeah, that's right. When we talk about examples, where do we start? There's examples in the past
There's even examples
presently and
We could even be examples
That's that's the power of them. Let's keep going
That was a lot of reading. I know right. I want to enjoy family worship, but I
I feel like the things that we are covering are just really not what I need right now
Yeah
You know, I just don't know if this is what they need right now
We'll keep working on it. I think we'd all agree that family worship was difficult to watch
It was uncomfortable for everyone
Clearly Max and Irene had some obstacles. They needed to overcome to really worshiping Jehovah as a family
To start and keep a good habit going requires determination and resolve
So that's where you need to start for your family
You need to resolve that you're going to worship Jehovah as a family
Notice the resolve in Joshua's words at Joshua chapter 24 and verse 15
As Joshua chapter 24 and verse 15
Now if it seems bad to you to serve Jehovah
Choose for yourselves today whom you will serve
Whether the gods that your forefather served on the other side of the river
Or the gods of the Amorites and whose land you're dwelling
But as for me and my household
We will serve Jehovah
Yes worship of Jehovah's a family needs to be at the very center of your family life
Now weekly family worship is not all that's involved in worshiping together as a family
Let's consider five ways we can worship together Jehovah as a family
one prayer
Parents do not underestimate the impact that your prayers have on your children
When a child hears their parents pour out their hearts to Jehovah that tells them that Jehovah's very real to their parents
I can recall growing up listening to my father's prayers
Now when I was young I thought his prayers were very long
But as I grew older and really listened carefully to what he was saying
I could see how much of a close relationship he had with Jehovah
two
Discuss the daily text it's an excellent habit and a very spiritual way to start the day
Three attending meetings now not just make sure our family is there at the meetings
But they're involved engaged and work hard to prepare so all family members can have a meaningful comment at the meetings
For share in the ministry regularly as a family
Now sharing in the ministry together as a family draws us closer to our family members
When we hear them speak about the truth
We listen to their phone calls or we read their letters
We can feel their faith
I loved going in the ministry with my mother and listen to her skillfully use the Bible to answer questions
And five have a consistent, enjoyable and meaningful family worship program
Let's consider what that means first of all consistent
In the video max was trying to have the family worship consistently each week
Is your family worship consistent each week
Is your family worship enjoyable
In the video the kids were bored
They were looking at their phones checking the time
And week after week of kind of a question and answer style
led to the young people giving sort of one word answers
It did not look enjoyable
Now would your family describe family worship as enjoyable
How about meaningful
What max was using for material was merit material that he thought was meaningful
But did it look like it was meaningful to the family
Does your family worship use material that is meaningful to your family
Now after reviewing these five points, we don't want you to be discouraged
If it's a struggle to maintain a good routine
Life in this system has many challenges trials and unexpected events
So stays positive
And when your good routine breaks down from time to time
Consider what adjustments you can make to be successful and get your spiritual routine back on track
Regularly ask Jehovah for his help and don't give up
Now as you watch the following dramatization
Notice how max and Irene and the family work together to make family worship successful
March 15th 2014 watch tower
Family worship can you make it more enjoyable
The worship of Jehovah should not be boring
Address the needs of each family member
Babe, what are our kids need?
What's actually going on in their lives
Family worship needs to include that
Maybe we need to pay more attention to what's going on with them
Talk to them
Listen to them
I'm gonna send you a link to a great watch to our article. I can't wait to read it
Max and I changed our approach
We found out what mattered to our kids
Like friends
Adjusting to a blended family
Dating
So we turn things around and use family worship to focus on what our kids really needed
And to prepare ourselves for possible future trials
Good night, tell good night good night good night
um
Family worship was was cool. It was
I'm glad you liked it
Thank you
Good night, tell
night good night
Hey, guess what
What
I applied to Bethel
You did?
Yep
That's really exciting
I'm proud of you
Thanks
Congratulations
Thank you
Hey, selfie time everybody
All right on three, we're gonna say Bethel, okay?
All right
One
Two
Three
Bethel
We've come a long way
And through it all, Jehovah has taught us to love
And he's given our family
Peace
We can see that Max and Irene analyzed what was wrong with family worship and decided to change their approach
Let's examine how they did that and what it means for us
What did they do to make their family worship more meaningful
Well, Max and Irene had to ask themselves
What's going on in their kids lives
What topics could they discuss at family worship that would truly be useful to their kids
Did you smile when you saw Max almost drop the glass? What his daughter talked about dating
But what a difference their efforts to listen and really understand what was happening with the kids made in the family worship
How did Max and Irene make family worship more enjoyable
Did you see how the family was reacting at family worship now
What a difference
The kids were smiling
They looked engaged in the discussion and touched by what they were discussing
So do what you can to make sure that your family feels relaxed and happy
And that your family worship reflects the kind of happy and joyful God that Jehovah is
Remember your family will often remember more about how they felt during family worship
Then maybe the exact details of what they learned
Keep worshiping Jehovah's a family
Make your family worship consistent
enjoyable and meaningful
And work together to overcome obstacles
Just like Max and Irene and the kids all worked together to solve problems and create a very peaceful family life
It was really beautiful to see how far they had come by applying Bible principles
In review
This symposium has taught us that Bible principles can be used as a road map to family peace
Work hard to show love and respect
To improve communication to work together as a team and to worship Jehovah together
And please be patient with one another as you form habits that lead to peace
With Jehovah's help you and your family will enjoy peace that only he can provide